# Class

## Why do we call class? & Why using class?

- Class in biology
    - Higher definition of species and family
- `Almost everything we see in real life has a class in which they are defined`
    - They share similar characteristics
    - So thus in programming

- Struct in C
- States + Action
- Follow the way people see things

## Class in OOP

- Template, Blueprint, Factory
- It includes states, actions and etc

## Class and memory

- `In Java, only primitive types are stored in stack`
- Class is actually `reference type`
    - `Thus, stored in Heap`

## Pointer VS Reference

- Reference type in Java is actually a Pointer
    - `Pointer is a variable that stores memory address`
- `Reference type in Java thus variable that stores memory address`

## Constructor

```kotlin
//instantiation and setting initial value
val human = Human()

human.sex = Sex.MALE
human.name = "Adam"
human.age = 20
```

- Problem with this
    - `Object does not have something meaningful during Instantiation`
- Why is this a problem?
    - Object is valid as soon as they are created
    - Error prone if not set in constructor
    - What if more member variables are added?
    - How should we set initial value?

## Access Modifier

- Object should be responsible for its own state
    - To do that, Object has to prevent modification from outside
- Access Modifier
    - Who from outside has access to my state?
        - public, protected, default, private
- How it is used?
    - member variable: private
    - method: public
    - `Access to member variable through method!`
        - Encapsulation
        - Abstraction
    - `method with private access modifier?`
        - to avoid code duplication
- Private access modifier
    - Access within `class`, not `object`
    - `Objects with same class can have access to private member`

```java
public class Human {
    private int age;
    ...

    public void punch(Human enemy) {
        enemy.age -= 1; //ok
        this.age += 2; //ok
    }
}
...
        Human adam=new Human();
        Humand james=new Human();
        adam.punch(james)
```  

## Getter, Setter

- Good control of access = good encapsulation
- Direct access through member variable is rare
- Why not direct access to member variable?
    - **To let an object be responsible for itself**
  ```
  You have a class with member variables and access to these without using getter, setter
  You later want to set one of those variables with slight tweak. this means you have to modify every part that
  use that member variable...!
  ```
- Advantages of using getter, setter
    - **calculate something without declaring variable**
  ```java
    public int weight() {
      return hiehgt * 1.1;
    }
  ```
    - **Add additional logic in getter, setter**
    - **Polymorphism through inheritance**
- Best Practice of access modifier
    - `Member variable should be in private`
    - `Object should be meaningful right after initialization and while it is alive`
        - `Again, no meaningless class declaration(constructor)`
    - Getter, up to you
    - Setter, think carefully
        - `Ideal way to modify state`
            - Client request action to an object
            - `Object performs an action and as a result, state changes -> object responsible for its state`
      ```java
      public class Classroom {
          private int[] scores;
          private float mean;
          
          public boolean setScore(int index, int score) {
          scores[index] = score;
          updateMean();
          return true;
          }
          
          private void updateMean() {
          this.mean = ...;
          }
      }   
      ```  
        - However, this is not always possible
            - `Try following the best practice!!!`

## Notes

- `Constructor is a cotract that creates an object with right state`
- `Must ensure that object has right state when initializing`
- Creating a class, using private access modifier are encapsulation!
- Using getter/setter is also a data abstraction! (indirect access)
- Encapsulation
    - Put data and action together
    - Protect data from outside
    - Client does not need to know what's inside
- Abstraction
    - In OOP, `We do not access to something concrete`
    - ADT perspective
        - Class can be used as a data type
    - Procedural data abstraction
        - Use method rather than calling access to data
    - Disadvantage?
        - A class without action
          - DTO(lots of getter/setter)
        - No standard -> can be subjective
  